# RECTANGLES
Final Project for [CS50P](https://cs50.harvard.edu/python/2022/).

#### **Video Demo**:
[Project's Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HODJ91WuR5Q)

#### **Description**:
Basically i have 3 files in my project and im going to write about each of them. The first file is the **project.py**. In the 'main' function i have a list that will contain some shape objects (limit is 4), a block of code inside a loop that deals with the user input, an if condition that exit the program if the user doesnt enter any valid input to create the objects, and another block of code inside another loop, that deals with printing the shape image (made of '*'s) and some aditional information about the objects. In the first loop if i want less than 4 shapes i just press CTRL + D to exit the loop and in the second loop i can just be there printing the info's of my shapes forever, but CTRL + D will also exit the loop and in that case represents also the end of the program. The 'valid input' function will test user input using regular expression, the 'get_dimensions' function will extract the numbers from the input also using regular expression, the 'rect_or_square' function will return a 'Square' object or a 'Rectangle' object based on the arguments passed, the 'geometry_info' function will print the attributes of the objects using the 'str' method in the 'Rectangle' class and, finally, the 'shape_char' function will return a dictionary containing value returns of the object methods. The second file is **rectangles.py** that have a 'Rectangle' class and a 'Square' class (that inherits from 'Rectangle'). The only difference between the classes is that the 'Square' class uses just one value to create the width and height and have its own 'str' method. All of the other methods are from the 'Rectangle' class. In the 'Rectangle' class i basically have setters and getters for both width an height, the 'str' method, 3 other methods that returns both the area, perimeter and diagonal and, lastly, the method that prints the shape. Finally, in the **test_project** file i make the unit test of 3 functions: valid_input, get_dimensions and shape_char. **OBS:** This project was based on a [FreeCodeCamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/) Python course assignment that i submited some days ago. But for the CS50P i improve it and added some more functionallity.